First post
==========

:date: 2016-08-29T14:58

This past April I ended a contracting gig I'd been on for two-and-a-half years
so that I could spend the summer with my then six-month-old son. Around the
same time, I bought a compact mirrorless digital camera to supplement my hefty
and neglected DSLR. After daily practice with my new camera, I decided to
continue the trend and try to take at least one picture every day. Several
months later, I'm still on track and my photography is much-improved.

A few days ago, I wondered which other activity could benefit from daily
practice. Writing seemed like an obvious choice, requiring limited tools and a
small time commitment. My daily writing regimen has three restrictions:

 * Write and publish at least 250 words on a topic decided that day,
 * Write with limited `repetition and deviation <http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006s5dp>`_ from the topic, and
 * Have fun.

As with my photography, I want to create good pieces, but good pieces every day
is not a requirement. Most of what I write will be absolute garbage, as
evidenced by this first post. Most people reading my writing won't find it
interesting. That's OK, I'm not writing for them — I'm writing for me.

My hope is that writing will become easier and more enjoyable. As a child I was
fond of writing, but these days my writing is limited to business contexts and
trying to cram thoughts into `140 characters on Twitter
<http://twitter.com/istevens>`_. Fun, sometimes, but not expressive.

Here's hoping that future attempts don't need sentences like these to pad out
the length requirement.

