Fathers and their daughters
===========================

:date: 2016-09-10T20:58

I was a little frustrated after reading `The Economist article which claims
that marriages with sons are more successful <http://econ.st/2bIsTk6>`_ than
ones with daughters. Men, it seems, are more likely to stay and be engaged if
they have a son than if they have a daughter. It's not the nature of the
article, nor the data which frustrated me, but the selfish attitude parents
have of their children.

The article is full of first-person accounts from fathers who don't "get" their
daughters, who prefer their sons because they just assume they'll be like
themselves and have the same preferences. This is so much bullshit, and so much
laziness on the part of the father (and the mothers who put up with this crap).

And yet, I live in a bubble of men who are happily engaged with their
daughters. So much so, that when my son was born I was taken aback when a
family friend asked me, expectantly, whether I was happy that I finally had
*my* son. *My son*. Of course, she said "your son", but the meaning of "your"
was pretty clear: my daughter was my wife's, and my son was mine. I calmly
replied that I was looking forward to having two children, whether they were
two girls, or one of each, and that it really didn't matter to me. The woman
was genuinely surprised at my response, leaving me a little taken aback. It was
clear that she had more experience with fathers who yearn for sons, than
with fathers who are engaged regardless.

If the Economist article is to believed, my friend's experience with fathers
preferring sons is the "average" one, and that's sad. I feel that parents of
all sorts can contribute equally to the shaping of children, their attitudes,
and their interests.
