Film cameras I have owned
=========================

:date: 2016-08-31T14:42

I really need a list of topics to write about for days when I don't know what
to write â€” days like this one. Let's continue with `yesterday's topic of
photography <{filename}20160830-photography-timeline.rst>`_, something which I
do every day.

I had my own film camera when I was about 8. It was a black plastic 35mm
point-and-shoot, a real beauty, with manual advance and rewind crank. I liked
the rewind crank, which was a satisfying end-of-roll ritual. Automatic rewind
mechanisms just aren't as fun. There's still the satisfaction of a finished
roll but less direct involvement, less anticipation; just push a button.
Of course, you can never finish a roll on a digital camera; there's no notion
of being "done".

.. container:: idea

   Here's an idea: Design a digital camera or app with a configurable "roll"
   size, and don't allow the user to review pictures until the roll is done and
   they turn a physical or virtual crank. This way, the photographer can be
   more focused on taking the shots without breaking flow, and can self-impose
   a goal without having to keep track of the number of photos taken.

My second camera was an ugly, light grey, brick of a point-and-shoot, with a
sliding lens cover, automatic advance, push-button rewind, and flash. I don't
remember this camera as fondly as my first one. I must have treasured it as I
remember being quite upset when the case cracked after the camera fell to the
sidewalk on a trip to Montreal. This camera lasted me into university, where it
was was only used at parties and other events where I didn't want my SLR.

Ah, yes, my first SLR. My father bought me a Pentax 35mm SLR with a 50mm lens
for a birthday when I was in second or third year of university. Many shots I
took were out of focus, but this was the camera which introduced me to
photography as a practice, not just as a means of capturing images. In
retrospect, I'm fairly certain I had no idea how to properly expose a frame for
the shot I wanted. Instead, I blindly followed the internal light meter. I
bought a bulky low-end Sigma zoom lens for versatility, but I never truly
explored the 50mm lens until very recently.

This brings me to `my first digital cameras
<{filename}20160831-digital-cameras.rst>`_, something which I'll complete in a
later post.
