Is Monument Valley my daughter's Jumpman?
=========================================

:date: 2016-09-03T16:09

As I write this, my three-year-old daughter plays `Monument Valley
<http://www.monumentvalleygame.com>`_ on my iPad. This is her second time
through. She's extremely focused. If it weren't for the occasional pleas for
help, I could leave her playing the game for hours.

Monument Valley is the only game on my iPad my daughter can play by herself. My
other games require either reading skills or faster reaction times —
they're not designed with a three-year-old in mind. Monument Valley demands
only that you poke at the puzzles. There are a few pieces of dialog which weave
a thin plot, but they can be skipped. My daughter can get to level 5 with only
a few vague hints, but needs increasingly more help from there.

When I was three in the late-seventies, video games were still new and few had
one in their house. If they did, it was probably Pong, which used a knob-based
paddle control — no easy touch interface fit for a three-year-old. My first
puzzle platformer was probably `Jumpman
<https://archive.org/details/msdos_Jumpman_1984>`_ on the Commodore 64. I was
likely eight or nine at the time, yet its impact still reverberates. Even now,
thirty years later, I could probably play it for hours.

Around the time I was playing Jumpman, there were a handful of quality releases
in a market which was still largely relegated to the arcades. Consumers these
days are awash in video games of every style, for every screen. Will my
daughter feel the same way about Monument Valley thirty years on? or will its
memory drown in the multi-billion-dollar video game market?

What *is* likely is that my daughter — like many in her generation — will have
fond memories of playing video games with her parents. Perhaps more parents are
playing video games with their kids than in previous generations, and likely
earlier than ever before. What children played will be a less important memory
than who they played it with — family. As parents, this is a perfect
opportunity to move our children towards games which help them grow, while
having fun together.
