The photowalk that almost was my last
=====================================

:date: 2016-09-06T20:10

I've taken at least one picture every day since I bought my Olympus E-M10 in
May. I take my camera almost everywhere and take most of my pictures while I'm
out running errands. Every few days I may go walking with the goal of taking
pictures. Last week was one such day, and it may have almost been my last.

I was out with my 50mm SMC Takumar lens, intent on capturing some views of a
water treatment plant down the street from our Toronto home. It was a hazy and
hot morning as it had been for the past week or two. I rode the streetcar to
the water treatment plant, walked around the grounds, took a few pictures of
some backlit and starkly-lit buildings, but was limited as grass-cutting
groundskeepers were getting in the shots. I decided to walk along a nearby
beach, one which was only accessible through a hole in the fence, followed by a
steep descent alongside a retaining wall.

The beach below was rocky, strewn with garbage, and lined with a steep hill
thick with trees and underbrush. Clothes hung to dry on some nearby trees and
rocks. A half-dozen beer cans were embedded in the sand. The charred remains of
multiple fires dotted the beach. The retaining wall bore layers of graffiti,
all tags, with fresh red, blue, and metallic pieces shining in the morning sun.
`A partly submerged shopping cart stood filled with sand
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/istevens/29215747096/>`_. Somebody was walking
their dog behind me as I took pictures.

I waited until the dog-walker had disappeared further down the beach, and
continued after them. A few graffiti-covered stones in the mouth of a drain
caught my eye. I squatted low for a shot, the nearby fetid water wrinkling my
nose. Sweat started to drip down my forehead.

I stood up and continued walking past a breakwall. Stick figures appeared
hanging from trees among the rocks. Suddenly, out of the corner of my eye, I
spotted a shirtless pot-bellied man sitting on rocks along the breakwall. This
wasn't the man with the dog. I nod, continuing to walk. I wasn't on the beach
looking to talk, and certainly not to strange men sitting shirtless before
noon. It was then that I spotted the makeshift tent.

Someone had hung a few tarps and blankets among some branches and sticks on the
rocky beach. Was this where the shirtless man lived? It was getting hot, and I
was only interested in finding the exit the man and his dog took. Where did
they go? "It can't be much farther," I told myself as I passed a couple more
breakwalls. A sign along the beach read "Nudity Prohibited". In the underbrush,
glimpses of overgrown fences.

The rocky beach stopped, with a breakwall continuing between the water and a
treed cliff. It was either return the way I came, or continue along the
breakwall. I climbed the breakwall, figuring that with fences would come a
trail sooner or later.

I was in luck. Further along the breakwall a trodden path, almost hidden,
appeared. Was this my ticket out? With my head and much of my upper body
already wet with sweat, I started to follow the trail up. It quickly became
quite steep, and I had to reach out to pull myself up a few times. Loose gravel
and sand threatened to give way under my feet. Did people really come this way?

A ledge in the trail, a temporary rest from climbing. I see a fence, and am
both elated and hesitant. Is this a dead-end, freedom requiring trespass, or
the exit I'd been hoping for? In my excitement, I almost don't notice the
5-metre drop on my right. Carefully watching my step, I continue my climb. The
fence doesn't appear to have a breakâ€¦but wait, it does! I'm saved!

Slipping through a hole on the fence, I emerge in a small thin park. On my
left, a golf course; everywhere else, suburban homes. Now drenched with sweat,
I half-stumble out the park, and along the house-lined streets to freedom.
