My daughter has many dentists
=============================

:date: 2016-09-04T21:36

I don't remember how it started, but every night before going to bed, my
daughter has her teeth cleaned by one of her dentists. At last count, I think
she has six who come by regularly, and they often tuck her in as well. A
dentist will rarely come by in the mornings, but a couple have visited while
we've stayed at a cottage.

Frank Ralph and Fred Ralph — no relation — were my three-year-old's first
dentists. After a few visits, my daughter would start to politely ask "Please
may I have my dentist?" From then on, no tooth got an evening clean without a
dentist's touch. After Frank and Fred, it was Dr. Swartega-Nayan, then Elsa
Dentist, and now Elsa's Sister Dentist.

The dentists who visit are pretend, but the way my daughter interacts with
them, talks to them about her parents, and talks to us about them, they might
as well be real. Make no mistake, my daughter is fully aware we are
role-playing. When we started, she would often try to trip me up by addressing
a dentist as "Daddy", then laughing "You're the dentist!" when I answered her.
My daughter would also want to continue the role-playing in the morning, as if
the dentist slept over. We quickly put a stop to that.

Lately the dentist role-playing has taken Inception-like twists. My daughter
will sometimes assume the role of Little Dr. Swartega-Nayan, who is not only my
dentist, but is also dentist to my daughter's dentists. Tonight the circle was
closed when Little Dr. Swartega-Nayan was paid a visit by *her* dentist while,
in turn, paying me a visit. Confused yet?

My daughter and I have started talking about going to "a real dentist, not a
pretend dentist." Sometimes I wonder whether our role-playing will help with
those first visits, or just complicate them. Then I think: my daughter is able
to wrap her head around recursive dentists while playing a dentist herself,
she'll be fine.
