My long-term relationship with Apple
====================================

:date: 2016-09-07T14:42

What better day than an Apple product launch day to write about my relationship
with Apple? I was never one to make fun of Apple products — they always seemed
like great machines, and fun to use. A company I worked for in 1995 made heavy
use of Macs, which were a joy to use after DOS, OS/2, and early versions of
Windows.

My very first Apple product was an Apple SE I bought for $5 at a University of
Waterloo surplus sale around 1998. I never used this seriously and bought it as
a joke. I've since lost track of the SE's whereabouts.

I bought my first Apple product I truly used, a Powerbook G5, in 2005 after
years of using DOS or Linux variants on PC hardware. Mac OS, with BSD under the
hood, was a Unix OS put out by a company passionate about user experience, and
I was sold. Sure, it cost more than Linux machines I could piece together
myself, and spend days tweaking kernel settings, kernel modules, and
distribution-specific configuration, and that was fine by me. My Powerbook also
came with some great Apple software — Garageband, iMovie, iTunes, etc. — with no
equal on Linux, free or otherwise.

The Powerbook was my only laptop for eight years. These days it looks like a
cobbled-together rough prototype of an Apple laptop, but it still works. As
with my other computers, I stayed with my Powerbook until I couldn't put up
with it anymore. I supplemented my laptop experience with both an iPod Touch
and iPad, and was able to put off buying another laptop because of that.

My next laptop after my Powerbook is my current laptop, a Macbook Pro I bought
in 2013 which shows no sign of slowing down. In over eleven years I have only
owned two laptops. The so-called "Apple Tax" has been worth it for me. (That
said, in over twenty-five years I have owned only five computers, so this could
be just part of a personal trend.)

I have never regretted buying into Apple's products or ecosystem. I have no
complaints. Apple's build quality has meant that I can continue using their
products for longer than competing systems would have retained their value. I
still use my iPod Touch (the first of the Retina Display generation) and iPad 2
on a daily basis. I have no iPhone, though, but that's a different story.
