Why I Enjoy Taking Pictures
===========================

:date: 2016-08-30T11:48

In `yesterday's inaugural post <{filename}20160829-first.rst>`_ I mentioned
photography:

    […] I bought a compact mirrorless digital camera to supplement my hefty and
    neglected DSLR. After daily practice with my new camera, I decided to
    continue the trend and try to take at least one picture every day. Several
    months later, I'm still on track and my photography is much-improved.

I've been taking pictures since I was perhaps 8. The exact age I received
my first camera — a black plastic 35mm point-and-shoot — escapes me, but I
distinctly remember a few shots I took at the time. In one, I've directed
someone to shoot me with my hand extended along a wall to a patch of sunlight.
In another, my sister stands with one of our cats. A series of photos shows my
bike and bikes of friends decorated for a contest at the Uxbridge Fall Fair.
We're all still in elementary school in the pictures, probably grade 3 or 4.
Clearly, I need to find these photos.

When my hand was in that patch of sunlight, I'm certain there was someone
telling me the shot wouldn't turn out. I went ahead anyway, and have been
experimenting with light, shadow, and colour ever since. Why? I've used
photography to document events, people, and places — as most have — but why
fiddle with it, why play with and push its boundaries?

.. My Dad had an interest in photography and owned a Pentax SLR along with four
   or five lenses. His youngest brother was a professional photographer, but I
   rarely saw him as he lived in England. My father was strictly a portrait
   photographer.  He would often say that a photo needs a subject, and would
   offer this advice whenever I pointed my camera at some random landscape.
   Practically every shot my Dad took has a person in its borders. My
   experimentation with photography wasn't learned, nor was it ever a shared
   experience.

Each shutter release records one face of an infinitely-faceted truth. I've
always been eager to unveil which facet the camera has captured. Digital
cameras immediately reward that anticipation, for better or for worse, but I
still feel it. I've also never lost the desire to influence which truth the
camera records. That desire is partly one of control (through manual exposure,
for example), but also a desire to introduce a little randomness, such as by
shooting with a manual lens. In this way, each shutter release also results in
a delightful surprise, yet one which I've heavily influenced.

Photography for me is a desire to record a truth, to play with that truth, but
also to experience joy witnessing a surprising take on that same truth. These
desires lead me and others to find beauty in the unexpected — people who love
pictures of decay, for example — or find a unique way to represent beauty that
is more conventional. Photography can then be thought of as part
problem-solving using science and creativity, and part serendipity.

Interestingly, problem-solving using science (math, really) and creativity can
be used to describe software development, something I've explored and enjoyed
about as long as I've explored photography.
