Over twenty years on, why I still code HTML
===========================================

:date: 2016-09-02T15:34

This 250-word a day blog is currently powered by `Pelican
<http://getpelican.com>`_, a static site generator for blogs. As with the vast
majority of blog software, Pelican lets you select themes for your site. Dozens
of themes are available, written by other Pelican users. You can also write
your own theme, which is what I chose to do.

Why would I do this? Why would I voluntarily decide to create work for myself,
use my precious free time to bang out template code and HTML, all while relying
on technical documentation which, based on my experience using free software,
is likely to be poorly-written and incomplete? Good question.

I have been typing words enclosed in angle brackets for almost as long as
graphical web browsers have been parsing them. The `Mosaic browser
<http://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/enabling/mosaic>`_ was released in early 1993; I
wrote my first HTML tag likely in late 1994 or early 1995. HTML has been a
staple in my language stack longer than any other language I've used. The only
other technology which even comes close is shell scripting, although I've
switched shell languages several times over the years.

A large part of why I still code HTML is control. I need to know that web sites
which carry my name have *the best HTML*. I respect bandwidth, so HTTP payloads
served by my sites need to be slim. I respect document semantics, so HTML my
sites serve needs to reflect the nature of the content. Many web sites, even
simple blogs, force far too much data on end users, and often include
JavaScript which slows page processing and rendering. Many themes for web
content use outdated semantics for content (like nested ``<div>`` tags instead
of ``<section>`` and ``<article>`` tags). These things matter to me.

My web properties are an online extension of myself and should reflect my
aesthetic. I fully expect anyone looking to evaluate me on a technical level
— such as potential employers — to view source on my online offerings to do so.
Although I am well over a decade removed from having HTML in my job
description, for whatever reason I think it matters that I get my hands dirty
once in a while for everyone to see. I should probably let go of that.
