3 Reasons I don't have a smart phone
====================================

:date: 2016-09-11T21:16

In the past sixteen years, I have owned only three cellphones. While `others
replace their phones every 28 months
<http://www.wsj.com/articles/americans-keep-their-cellphones-longer-1461007321>`_,
I have replaced my phone every five years. How is this possible? I use a
feature phone.

(To be fair, between 2001 and 2006 I did not have a cellphone, and I
replaced the one I bought in 2006 only because it was under recall.)

I've worked in the tech industry since 1999, spent four years of that at a
mobile gaming company, and worked at a social media agency for almost two
years. Why would I use a feature phone? Three reasons: size, cost, and
attention.

My cell phone is just over half the size of a deck of cards. It fits
conveniently in the watch pocket of most jeans. Carrying a smartphone is like
carrying a chocolate bar in your pants, all the time. How is everyone OK with
constantly having a chocolate-bar-sized bulge in their pants? The largest form
factor I would adopt would be that of the iPhone SE. Everything else is too
large for me to carry or use one-handed.

My feature phones have cost next-to-nothing, but also keep my overall wireless
costs down. I barely use my phone, and feel that I'm paying far too much for my
plan as it is. All told, my wireless bill is $35 after taxes. There are two
occasions when I have truly yearned for a smartphone: while wondering how long
until the next bus, and while trying to hail a cab. I can't justify doubling or
trebling my phone bill for NextBus.com and Über, not to mention the cost of
buying a new phone every few years.

Yes, I know that smartphones offer more than NextBus and Über. That's the
trouble. I've seen smartphone users, worked with them, even married them. Their
phone tempts them, teases away any moments of reflection or mindfulness.
They're often looking at their screen for what's new, something, anything. They
don't even know what's happening. One minute they go to their phones to check
their schedule, the next they're skipping through snaps. And that's in the
middle of having a conversation with a real person!

I don't want to be one of these people enveloped by their smartphones. I really
enjoy my moments to myself, even when they are boring as hell, *especially*
those moments. I immerse myself in those moments, really explore them. When I'm
not present in moments like those, I'm agitated. For many, smartphones are
*meant* to fill in those slow times, those in-between times. For me, that's
what life is about. A smartphone would draw me away from moments like those,
and I might be less happy for that.
