Hell is other parents
=====================

:date: 2016-09-05T20:00

As a father of two, I'll sometimes get asked for advice from mothers or
fathers expecting their first-born. "Don't listen to others' advice. Do what's
right for you," I'll say, before launching into some advice which likely isn't
right for them.

One of those nuggets of baby wisdom I offer is that "Other parents are the
worst." If you're a new parent, you may not realise that your style of looking
after your kids will drastically differ from those of your friends, family, and
neighbours. It's usually easy to shrug others' parenting quirks off — they may
not be *that* different from your own, and they're not impacting your
relationship.

There are times, however, when you wonder whether other parents are even
thinking. Seeing the worst of these in public is often shocking. Take today for
instance. We witnessed grandparents "discovering" the power of YouTube to keep
their preschool grandson quiet and eating. This at our local comics-themed
diner. Granny called her daughter on the phone to tell her the great news —
turns out, daughter's already hip to it and uses YouTube all the time during
dinner! "It's the only way I can get him to eat." Uh, did you try using hunger?

Less than an hour later, with my daughter at a playground, I see a five- or
six-year-old boy complain to his mother that a child had bitten him. The boy
then goes on to proclaim that he's going to "put him in the garbage." His
mother, thankfully, says that, no, you don't do that. Without missing a beat,
the mother then tells her son that if someone bites him, he should push them
back. She repeats this advice two or three times — "Someone bites you, you push
them back" — and then goes around the playground, with her son, looking for the
boy who bit him. I don't know if they ever found him.

My advice to new parents: Don't be *those* parents.
